[docs] Update Unit testing guide (#30816)
expo/expo: docs/pages/develop/testing.mdx

---
title: Testing with Jest
sidebar_title: Testing

> description: Learn how to set up and configure the jest-expo library to write unit and snapshot tests for a project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to set up and configure the jest-expo library to write unit and snapshot tests for a project with Jest.
```
Maybe too redundant, was just thinking about how it's specifically about Jest, and how there's other ways to write unit tests

---

import { BookOpen02Icon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons/outline/BookOpen02Icon';
import { Cube01Icon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons/outline/Cube01Icon';

import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';
import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { FileTree } from '~/ui/components/FileTree';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';
import { Tabs, Tab } from '~/ui/components/Tabs';
import { CODE } from '~/ui/components/Text';

[Jest](https://jestjs.io) is the most widely used unit and snapshot JavaScript testing framework. In this guide, you will learn how to set up Jest in your project, write a unit test, write a snapshot test, and best practices for structuring your tests when using Jest with React Native.

> You will also use the [`jest-expo`](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/jest-expo) library, which is a Jest preset and mocks the native part of the Expo SDK and handles most of the configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will also use the [`jest-expo`](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/jest-expo) library, which is a Jest preset that mocks the native part of the Expo SDK and handles most of the configuration needed for your Expo project.
```

<Terminal
  cmd={[
    '# For all other package managers',
    '$ npx expo install -- --save-dev jest-expo jest @types/jest',
    '',
    '# For yarn',
    '$ yarn add -D jest-expo jest @types/jest',
  ]}
/>

> **Note:** If your project is not using TypeScript, you can skip installing `@types/jest`.

</Step>

<Step label="2">

Open **package.json**, add a script for running tests, and add the preset for using the base configuration from `jest-expo`:

```json package.json
{
  "scripts": {
    "test": "jest --watchAll" /* @end */
    /* @hide ... */
  },
  "jest": {
    "preset": "jest-expo"
  }
}
```

</Step>

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary={<>Additional configuration for using <CODE>transformIgnorePatterns</CODE></>}>

You can transpile node modules your project uses by configuring [`transformIgnorePatterns`](https://jestjs.io/docs/configuration#transformignorepatterns-arraystring) in your **package.json**. This property takes a regex pattern as its value:

<Tabs>

<Tab label="npm/Yarn">

```json package.json
"jest": {
  "preset": "jest-expo",
  /* @info */
  "transformIgnorePatterns": [

>     "node_modules/(?!((jest-)?react-native|@react-native(-community)?)|expo(nent)?|@expo(nent)?/.*|@expo-google-fonts/.*|react-navigation|@react-navigation/.*|@unimodules/.*|unimodules|@sentry/react-native|native-base|react-native-svg)"

Author: I can remove this from here. However, I verified this info from the `jest-preset` library itself: https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/10d6426b2f0a3ecd54ff888e6d2758de35ffe743/packages/jest-expo/jest-preset.js#L57.

>     "node_modules/(?!((jest-)?react-native|@react-native(-community)?)|expo(nent)?|@expo(nent)?/.*|@expo-google-fonts/.*|react-navigation|@react-navigation/.*|@unimodules/.*|unimodules|@sentry/react-native|native-base|react-native-svg)"

Author: Unimodules part is now removed from the doc.

>     "node_modules/(?!((jest-)?react-native|@react-native(-community)?)|expo(nent)?|@expo(nent)?/.*|@expo-google-fonts/.*|react-navigation|@react-navigation/.*|@unimodules/.*|unimodules|@sentry/react-native|native-base|react-native-svg)"

Reviewer: it's harmless, so if you think it's better for consistency, we can leave it there. Though I wonder if we can safely remove it from jest-presets. Doctor will yell at you if you import unimodules :-).

>     "node_modules/(?!((jest-)?react-native|@react-native(-community)?)|expo(nent)?|@expo(nent)?/.*|@expo-google-fonts/.*|react-navigation|@react-navigation/.*|@unimodules/.*|unimodules|@sentry/react-native|native-base|react-native-svg)"

Author: Thanks for the addtional context about that. I've removed it from the guide :)

  ]
  /* @end */
}
```

</Tab>

<Tab label="pnpm">

```json package.json
"jest": {
  "preset": "jest-expo",
  /* @info */
  "transformIgnorePatterns": [
    "node_modules/(?!(?:.pnpm/)?((jest-)?react-native|@react-native(-community)?|expo(nent)?|@expo(nent)?/.*|@expo-google-fonts/.*|react-navigation|@react-navigation/.*|@unimodules/.*|unimodules|@sentry/react-native|native-base|react-native-svg))"
  ]
  /* @end */
}
```

</Tab>

</Tabs>

> Jest has various configuration options. The above configuration covers the majority of your needs. However, you can always add to this pattern list. For more details, see [Configuring Jest](https://jestjs.io/docs/configuration).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jest has many configuration option, but the above configuration should cover most of your needs. However, you can always add to this pattern list. For more details, see [Configuring Jest](https://jestjs.io/docs/configuration).
```

Author: I think splitting the sentence is okay here. we don't have to add pause and introduce contradiction. Also, "options" is the plural form that references those multiple configs that Jest provides.

Author: I've taken the simplification parts from your suggestions. Let me know if you still think it's not good.

Reviewer: oops, I meant to make that plural!
